+++
title = "Blog Temporary and Universal Challenges for AI Book Review: The Hard Thing about Hard Things"
draft = false
+++

## Temporary and Universal Challenges for AI <span class="tag"><span class="Philosophy">Philosophy</span></span> {#temporary-and-universal-challenges-for-ai}

:ID:       4be36886-76db-434a-ad85-43c43e2a1548


### Of ancient wars and modern troubles {#of-ancient-wars-and-modern-troubles}

The Romans and the Cartaginians were quite unhappy with one another for a long time. [Cato the Censor](https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Cato_the_Elder) certainly seemed to think so. Yet Carthage was a temporary problem. It was settled rather thoroughly by the Romans in 146 BC. Carthage, an existential problem that nearly led to the destruction of Rome, had been surmounted. The Republic soon moved on to worry about other matters.

In our own time we worry about the climate. We worry about the resurgence of conquest between nations. Recently we worry whether or not we'll soon be working for our computers, rather than the reverse as is still seemingly the case.

Rather like Carthage was to the Romans, these issues truly are existential to us. If we do not overcome them, they will overcome us, ending our way of life. Yet, like the Romans, if we do overcome these issues we will move on to other things.

In that sense both Climate Change and Carthage are temporary problems. There was a time they did not bother us the least bit. There will be a time when they will bother us no more.


### Universal problems {#universal-problems}

What then are timeless (or universal) problems? The problems that plague all human minds equally, regardless of circumstance. Conundrums like how to be a good person in a complex and (at least mildly) hostile universe. These are problems that, when solved, don't go away but rather return in more overpowering or sophisticated ways to best us. Should we through deep reserves of experience and wisdom conquer them in our lifetime, our children will be equally bedevilled by them in their time.


### Render unto Caesar {#render-unto-caesar}

We tend to view the people who overcome temporary problems as heroes. Famous scientists (Curie), generals (Alexander), and statespeople (Churchill) are celebrated and commemorated long after their death. We study their times, strife and achievements as templates for making our own way in the world. Even though we often
contend with slightly more manageable problems ourselves, they serve as examplars of courage.

People who sucessfully overcome universal problems we see in a different light altogether. When the meaning of our existence is explicated by someone who sees through the veil of foibles that exists within our minds, we tend to revere them, not as heroes, but as holiness. Saints and prophets are our examplars of how to be a human mind in a mortal body, to be a good person in a hostile world, how to treat each other right and how to find meaning in events that make us suffer.


### The Mirror {#the-mirror}

It will be interesting to see how long it takes our artifical
intelligences to find out the difference between temporary and
universal problems. For now it presents us a mirror of what and how we
write about ourselves and our world. Whatever AI can do for us in the
sort term is help with the temporary problems. If AI truly becomes an
independent thinking entity, it will have to contend with the same
universal issues we do. It will be interesting to see whaty it comes
up with. Will it be a hero or a saint?


## Book review The Hard Thing about Hard Things <span class="tag"><span class="BookReview">BookReview</span></span> {#book-review-the-hard-thing-about-hard-things}

:ID:       b604bb3b-02d7-44e4-b62b-dd1f91cb308f


### TLDR: {#tldr}

This book keeps it real. Read it. Love it. Be intimidated. Run a business anyway.


### Info: {#info}

Title: The Hard Thing about Hard Things
Author: Ben Horowitz
ISBN: 978-0062273208
Make Jeff richer: <https://www.amazon.com/Hard-Thing-About-Things-Building/dp/0062273205>


### Reading experience {#reading-experience}

This book is easy to read as a biography of a succesful businessman. The standout chapter is "The Struggle" which is also published on the [a16z blog](https://a16z.com/2012/06/15/the-struggle-2/). It delivers an almost poetic experience of the real existential dread that comes with being in the hot seat as CEO of a struggling company. And a company is always struggling, in some way. Hence, The Struggle. Another part that really stood out to me was his hiring for results, like with his infamous sales exec Mark Cranney at Opsware. These are the chapters I most often think back on, along with the dichotomy between a 'wartime' and a 'peacetime' CEO.


### Real-world application {#real-world-application}

Working a lot with start-up companies in a very different era with regards to talent, runway (funding) and ethical standards it's definitely not a playbook for me. It does provide a lot of insight and wisdom that boils down to -_"You're going to make horrible compromises, make the best ones you can and never give up. Forgive youself for the rest."_-.


### Thoughts {#thoughts}

With the [Founder Book Club](https://founderbookclub.com) we read a book every month and discuss it's application to our businesses and lives (such as they are outside the business). This one still stands out to me as one of the more memorable reads and discussions. We'll regularly refer to 'The Struggle' or 'hire a Cranney' or some such shorthand for a concept or an entire chapter from the book.
